Chapter 1
	 	 	 	 	
LO 1.1 Describe the purpose and functions of operating systems
https://youtu.be/LLj3x2CM2ME Me What is an OS? 
What’s the definition of OS?
What’s the difference between program, software & application?
What is a Sector? What is an interrupt?
Tell me about Unix. (1964)
What are utilities? 
What’s the difference between a GUI and a CLI?
What are some examples of an operating system (what are there names)?
What are 3rd party utilities? (don’t overthink it)
What are some examples of apps?
What is a database? What’s a desktop? (the screen you see after…)
What’s an icon? A taskbar? Why learn a CLi? 

https://youtu.be/f8wzoum6qu0 Me Introduction to Filesystems 18min


LO 1.2 Describe major events in the evolution of operating systems


LO 1.3 List and compare the common desktop operating systems in use today


LO 1.4 List the most common Mobile OSs, the devices associated with them, and the features found in most of these devices.



Chapter 2

	 	 	 	 	
LO 2.1	Describe security threats and vulnerabilities to computers and users.
LO 2.2	Identify methods for protecting against security threats. (update your OS…. IMMEDIATELY) 
LO 2.3	Troubleshoot common security problems.



Chapter 3

	 	 	 	 	
LO 3.1	Describe the various types of virtualization used in everyday computing and ways you might use desktop virtualization.
LO 3.2	Select and install a desktop virtualization option for a Windows desktop host computer.
LO 3.3	Select and install a desktop virtualization option for a Mac OS X host computer.

Mr. Houghton Videos! 

Maybe there is no ch4 b/c that’s an older windows system
Ch 5
	 	 	 	 	
LO 5.1	Select the method of installation, and then install and configure Windows 8.1.
LO 5.2	Perform appropriate post installation tasks to prepare Windows 8.1 for everyday use.



LO 5.3	Practice working with the new features of the Windows 8.1 GUI.
LO 5.4	Configure local security in Windows 8.1.


Ch 6
	 	 	
LO 6.1 Select a Windows 10 edition and the method of installation, and then install and configure Windows 10 on a laptop or PC
LO 6.2 Perform appropriate post installation tasks to prepare Windows 10 for everyday use

LO 6.3 Practice working with the new features of the Windows 10 GUI
LO 6.4 Configure local security in Windows 10






Ch 7 troubleshooting windows
	 	 	 	 	
LO 7.1 Define the role of the registry in Windows and back up and modify the registry when needed.



LO 7.2 Describe the Windows user options and power options, and, given a scenario, select appropriate startup options.
LO 7.3 Install and manage device drivers.

LO 7.4 Troubleshoot common Windows problems.

Windows recovery environment 
