Day 1 Excel
Objective: Create, edit, modify and format Tables and Charts (1 worksheet)
You’ll have 3 columns: Question, Answer, Thoughts.
Feel free to just put the question number in, not the question I’m asking. Use your autofill to save time :) 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o3ign_TwrP0 Basic Excel Formatting 8min Tutorials4Beginners
What does autofill do? What symbol is used?
What tab is “freeze panes” under? Based on your current selection of a row/column you can click here.
I need you to create three more tabs, each called “Day 1, Day 2, Day 3” because we’ll add to this lesson as we go on. Save the file on your desktop.
Right click for tab color, change the color of your tabs.
Save this on your desktop as “MyExcelLessons” so you can send it to me as an attachment. 

Day 2 Excel
Each day let’s make an effort to review something we learned from the day before, and find a way to apply it to our next worksheet! Don’t be intimidated by the 30min vid link, just focus on getting the basics down.
Objective: Enter data and apply basic formatting to a Worksheet (1 worksheet)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7RCdzTpKO0A Basic Features, 30min Sali
What does double clicking do to a column?
What tab is the “merge and center” button located?
Click day 1 worksheet, I want you to create a shopping list to buy people you know computer’s when I give you a million dollars (what if that was true, I was secretly a super rich person who just loves teaching…). Once you’ve clicked over to that tab I want you to use the merge and center button to create the title of this shopping list, called it “Computers” that spans 5 columns.
Create a column to number the rows, just called “Row” 
Create a column called Name, Specs, Price, and Link
Highlight the Price column and change the format to the dollar sign. @4:45 in video
Put the following prices in each row: 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 then auto sum the bottom.@5:15
Make sure the first row is numbered accordingly: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

Day 3 Excel Relative and Absolute Cells (2 worksheets today)
Objective: Create, modify and use formulas and functions to return information.
The use of relative and absolute cell references will be scattered across complex spreadsheets. Your ability to differentiate them and use them to your advantage will be the focus of today’s lesson. How do you use cell references across worksheets? It works like a normal reference you just have to use the name and address of the cell: type the name of the worksheet then a exclamation point, then that address. 
Remember, earch worksheet you create from the videos will add to your overall Final project.
https://youtu.be/FRu48zy-Djk 7min
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDg9s7BJ2m4 GCFLearn 5min
Create the same table in this video as a new worksheet.
What is a relative cell reference?
What is an absolute cell referene?
When would you use a relative cell reference?
When would you use an absolute cell reference?
What questions do you have about Excel so far?
Are cell references part of a formula or a function?

Day 4 
Objective: Create and performa What-If Analysis. 
This is a powerful feature of Excel, one for students and home owners alike! 
Excel 2016: What-if Analysis 
What happens during a “what-if analysis?”
How do you find average in excel?.
What tab do you click on to get to the what-if analysis?
What is Goal Seek?
For a C grade what percent would you use for the goal seek?
What other scenarios could a what-if analysis be used for?
 Mortgage what if analysis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eSRr3g6ptYY 
How can this type of what-if analysis be helpful? 

Day 5
Objective: Make use of relative and absolute cell references (1 worksheet)
I think this is a great lesson because students get to imagine their future and create a budget for such an imaginary scenario. You can even do best case / worst case scenarios. Use lots of imagination here! Don’t worry about uploading to Canvas, just save the spreadsheet appropriately. Also, try answering these questions before starting the lesson! 
 Mr. Houghton https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AcTbsipK558 Budget!
Questions
What is a job you’d be interested in doing in the future? What’s the average salary?
How much will you have to pay in taxes under the current brackets? (google-Fu!)
What type of transportation would you like to use as an adult?
What is the difference between wants & needs? (examples..)
What do you call these boxes in Excel?
What happens when you use an equal sign at the start of a cell?

Day 6! Email me your final spreadsheet with 8 worksheets in it!
Here is our final Excel lesson!  I’d like to walk you through how to create and format charts and graphs using the basketball chart below, and for the second part of the less I’d like you to use WHATEVER data you’d like. Whether it’s from a math class, a statistic you’re interested in like sports, or something from the subreddit “data is beautiful,” I’d like you to use some creativity and show me that you can find an appropriate graphic to use alongside statistical data.
Objective: Enter data and apply basic formatting to a Worksheet 
I want to see if you can figure things out with little instructions...

-COPY and paste any chart into excel
create a bar chart

Bailout Videos:
https://youtu.be/_Wu7jYTr1Pk GCF 5min
https://youtu.be/DAU0qqh_I-A Basics of Charts 7min

Questions:
What type of charts can you choose from?
What types of graphs can you use?
How do you know when to use a chart vs graph?
What tab do you go to insert a chart?
What type of data did you choose for your own work?
What do you prefer to look at: tables, charts or graphs?
How can people use charts to trick or lie to others?

Final Look at Excel: https://youtu.be/ZthlSLYc5UQ tips for beginners 
